books/bookvolbib add Gonnet reference

Goal: Axiom Literate Programming

\index{Gonnet, Gaston}
\index{Haigh, Thomas}
\begin{chunk}{axiom.bib}
@misc{Gonn05,
  author = "Gonnet, Gaston and Haigh, Thomas",
  title = "An Interview with Gaston Gonnet",
  year = "2005",
  publisher = "SIAM",
  url = "http://history.siam.org/pdfs2/Gonnet_final.pdf",
  abstract =
    "Born in Uruguay, Gonnet was first exposed to computers while working
    for IBM in Montevideo as a young man. This led him to a position at
    the university computer center, and in turn to an undergraduate degree
    in computer science in 1973. In 1974, following a military coup, he
    left for graduate studies in computer science at the University of
    Waterloo. Gonnet earned an M.Sc. and a Ph.D. in just two and a half
    years, writing a thesis on the analysis of search algorithms under the
    supervision of Alan George. After one year teaching in Rio de Janeiro
    he returned to Waterloo, as a faculty member.
    
    In 1980, Gonnet began work with a group including Morven Gentleman and
    Keith Geddes to produce an efficient interactive computer algebra
    system able to work well on smaller computers: Maple. Gonnet discusses
    in great detail the goals and organization of the Maple project, its
    technical characteristics, the Maple language and kernel, the Maple
    library, sources of funding, the contributions of the various team
    members, and the evolution of the system over time. He compares the
    resulting system to MACSYMA, Mathematica, Reduce, Scratchpad and other
    systems. Gonnet also examines the licensing and distribution of Maple
    and the project’s relations to its users. Maple was initially used for
    teaching purposes within the university, but soon found users in other
    institutions. From 1984, distribution was handled by Watcom, a company
    associated with the university, and 1988, Gonnet and Geddes created a
    new company, Waterloo Maple Software, Inc. to further commercialize
    Maple, which established itself as the leading commercial computer
    algebra system. However, during the mid-1990s the company ran into
    trouble and disagreements with his colleagues caused Gonnet to
    withdraw from managerial involvement. Since then, he feels that Maple
    has lost its battle with Mathematica. Gonnet also discusses Maple’s
    relation to Matlab and its creator, Cleve Moler.
    
    From 1984 onward with Frank Tompa, Tim Bray, and other Waterloo
    colleagues, Gonnet worked on the production of computer software to
    support the creation of the second edition of the Oxford English
    Dictionary. This led to the creation of another startup company, Open
    Text, producing software for the searching and indexing of textual
    information within large corporations. Gonnet explains his role in the
    firm, including his departure and his feeling that it made a strategic
    blunder by not exploiting its early lead in Internet search.
    
    Gonnet continued to work in a number of areas of computer science,
    including analysis of algorithms. In 1990, Gonnet moved from Waterloo
    to ETH in Switzerland. Among his projects since then have been Darwin,
    a bioinformatics system for the manipulation of genetic data, and
    leadership of the OpenMath project to produce a standard
    representation for mathematical objects. He has been involved in
    several further startup companies, including Aruna, a relational
    database company focused on business intelligence applications.",
  keywords = "axiomref",
  paper = "Gonn05.pdf"
}

\end{chunk}

